Graphical clock tree representation
-----------------------------------

- A fat line at the left, representing the chip boundary, with little squares
  representing pins. Pin name to the left of the square.

- Next to the line,  a column of clock sources: HSI, LSI, HSE, LSE

- External clocks with crystal/ceramic option (HSE/LSE) have two pins: OSC_IN
  (top) and OSC_OUT (bottom); names can vary; depending on clock mode, both are
  used or only the top one (bypass mode). They also have a little box with the
  clock name

  Specialized clocks with crystal/ceramic option: RTC

- Specialized external clocks without crystal/ceramic option (e.g. I2S_CKIN for
  I2S) have a single pin. Examples: I2S, USB, Ethernet PHY, SDIO (SD Card), CAN,
  TIMER, SAI (serial audio interface), DVP (digital video port), DSI (display
  serial interface), FMC (external memory), GPIO clock for precise
  synchronisation, generic clock input, PLL clock input, ...

Where should we put the actual frequency of these external clocks?  Proposal: a
label to the left or between/below the pin names. Putting the frequency outside
the chip boundary makes sense for external clocks.

In some cases such as I2S,  there is a relationship between sampling frequency,
clock frequency and peripheral settings. Can we makes use of this relationship?

- Left-to-right starting from clock sources is a forest of selectors, scalers,
  plls and remultipliers (immediately after a scaler). Order of clock sources
  and selector inputs can be rearranged to minimize signal crossings in this
  forest. The leaves of this forest labels representing peripherals, the core,
  buses, ...

- Some edges have a maximum frequency

- One selector might have a CSS (Clock Security System) attached; to be handled
  as a separate configurable peripheral. CubeMX for STM32C011D6Yx shows this,
  but offers no obvious option for configuration. Should we? And should it be
  shown in the clock tree? (I see no immediate need)

- MCO (Microcontroller Clock Output) pins are below the external and internal
  clocks, with selectors and scalers/dividers in right-to-left direction. To
  avoid signal crossings,  the inputs of these selector/scaler trees are often
  labels namign the clock source.

- Scalers are one-line or two-line rectangles with an optional label on the
  first line and the current scaling factor on the second line.  If the scaling
  factor is configurable,  there is a down-pointing triangle or arrow to the
  right of it,  which shows a list of options.

-




Use a grid of half text line height?


    * 




